---
layout: post
date: 2023-08-24 22:34:59
title: "Epic-day-1-of-the-Minnesota-State-Fair-in-the-book"
categories: '2023'
---

Epic day 1 of the Minnesota State Fair in the books! We did three separate sessions at the Fair, resting in the air conditioned camper in between. What a fun way to do the Fair! It’s too hard to do full posts with pictures from the camper, so the full review will have to wait until this weekend, but here is a new-foods preview post for those of you making your Fair food plans. We tried four new foods today.

Hamloaf Sandwich with Egg-in-the-Hole bread at Hamline Church Dining Hall - This review has to be broken into the food and the service. The sandwich was enormous, and it was pretty good! The ham loaf had a sweet glaze on it that really stood out, and the egg was still a little runny. It was hard to tell it was ham, it tasted pretty similar to meatloaf (not necessarily a bad thing!) The service on the other hand was a dumpster fire. These sandwiches take a long time to cook and everyone wanted one. They gave people signs to put on their table in theory to bring them out when they were done, but there was no ordering of the signs, so it was a free for all, with people hovering by the kitchen entrance grabbing them as they came out one and two at a time. The fine volunteer staff at Hamline were completely overwhelmed and unprepared to deal with it - hopefully they either figure out how to cook these sandwiches faster or come up with a better delivery system for day 2. After over a half-hour of this without us getting our sandwich, I asked for and got a refund. So how did we even taste it? Because a kind lady that we are pretty sure was Dara Moskowitz Grumdahl (local food writer) gave us half of her sandwich while we were waiting!

Fried Green Tomato sandwich at Farmer’s Union - Fantastic. As per usual, Farmer’s Union did not disappoint. Great sauce. Nice soft bun matched with the crunchy fried green tomatoes. And they always do really nice bacon on their sandwiches. This was a winner.
 
RC BBQ Sticky Ribs - RC has underwhelmed with their new items multiple times in the past so we didn’t have high hopes for this, but our resident rib aficionado Henry wanted to try them. Loved them! By far the best item I’ve ever had from there. They were pretty substantial, and done like ribs should be done, with lots of meaty, fall off the bone bites mixed in with charred tips and a really phenomenal bark. The sauce was sweet but not overly so, and finger-licking sticky for sure. And I read today that some of the proceeds are going for Maui fire relief. 

Galabao steamed pork buns from Union Hmong Kitchen - With a shockingly short line at Union Hmong Kitchen this evening, I made an impulse decision to pick up the galabao. When you have a chance to eat a multiple James Beard award nominee’s food at the Fair, you do it. For this item, Yia Vang (said chef) organized a fleet of Hmong community grandmas to make 18,000 buns! Homemade bao from grandma? Yes please! First off, this bun is HUGE. Like the size of my whole hand. It’s filled with a spiced pork filling along with half a hard-boiled egg. The bun is incredibly fluffy, and if you love doughy things, you will love this bun. It comes with a side of spicy green dipping sauce, which was delicious. All in all, this was a very good item. Just be aware that it’s mostly dough - I would ideally have liked more filling. And also, the bottom of the bun was quite stuck to the tissue paper and it was a bit of a chore to separate. If you enjoy bao buns you should try this. 

Pictures of all of this, plus today’s other food and non-food adventures (multiple celebrity sightings, multiple shows, lots of art/creative activity/agricultural stuff and more) will have to wait until I am back at the house. Looking forward to another epic day tomorrow!

